The scripture that we're considering this morning raises a very interesting question and that is
How is it that we can test Jehovah out?
Didn't Jesus say that we shouldn't test Jehovah?
Well, the simple answer to that question was given in the watchtower back in 1957
It simply stated there is a wrong way and a right way to put Jehovah to the test
Now how do we know what is the right way and what is the wrong way?
Well, again, but simply it means knowing the difference between faith and
stupidity
When we consider what the scriptures tell us it helps us to see the line that is the
demarcation between faith and stupidity
Consider first of all the good way that we can test out Jehovah
When we think about showing faith in Jehovah having trust in him and then obeying him not waiting for Jehovah to make the first move but rather
To for us first of all to obey him to reach out do what he wants us to do
That in a figurative way is putting him to the test
Because he's already promised to bless us by us obeying him means that we're showing faith
It also means that we don't complain
About the things that Jehovah allows to occur in our life and we don't take unnecessary risks
We don't try to fool him
By acting one way but then pretending to be another way
So put quite simply again
The right way for us to test out Jehovah
Means to trust him to have faith in him to obey him
Even if it may be difficult to do so
Well, what about the wrong way to test out Jehovah
Well, if we were to selfishly complain
About the things that Jehovah allows to occur in our life
Or if we were to do something stupid something careless
And expect that Jehovah is going to perform a miracle to save us
Or perhaps we keep pushing Jehovah to do something that really is not in harmony with his will
Or if we try to fool him by pretending to serve him
But actually doing things that displace him all of those things really would be a stupid act on our part
Now what really do we need to consider with regard to this well? Let's think about
When Jesus made that answer to Satan said you shouldn't put Jehovah to the test
Let's have a look at the scripture that he based that comment on
It's found in Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 16
And this gives us a little context to the meaning
In verse 16 it says you must not put Jehovah your God to the test
The way that you put him to the test that master
Now really what was it that these relights did at this particular time where the name of the location where they were meant testing or trial
Well, if we turn back to Exodus
17 and verse 7 it gives us some idea of what really this involved say Exodus 17 verse 7
So they named the place master and meribur because of the quarreling of these relights
And because they put Jehovah to the test by saying is Jehovah in our midst or not
So what did these relights do here?
Obviously they didn't trust Jehovah enough they didn't have enough faith in Jehovah to realize that he wasn't going to let them all die in the wilderness
But they pushed him they wanted something immediately they wanted to satisfy their selfish desires
Well, that's a very good lesson for us isn't it because this shows a lack of faith
We could consider
When the Israelites decided that they didn't want to go into the promised land
Remember they were so upset with the report of the two good
Chieftains who had spied out the land they wanted to kill them
They accepted the report of the ten who had a negative report
And why did they do that again lack of faith in Jehovah
But then when Jehovah told them what was going to happen the punishment that was going to come on them
What did they do?
They went straight ahead and decided to go into the promised land and what happened you see it was an act of stupidity
They were going on their own and Jehovah wasn't going to give them support and that's exactly what happened they were defeated
So we see this is a very interesting example for us
To understand the difference between the wrong way and the right way of putting Jehovah to the test
And more importantly we need to remember how Jehovah feels when we put him to the test in the wrong way
And we can see this if we turn to the book of Psalms
Psalms 78 and verses 40 and 41
How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and made him feel hurt in the desert
Again and again they put God to the test and they grieved the Holy One of Israel
Yes, by their lack of faith and by doing things that we could say irritated or disappointed Jehovah
They grieved Jehovah
So this is a very important matter for us to
Realize the difference between the right and wrong way of putting Jehovah to the test
With regard to this what sort of things do we need to avoid?
Well, we need to avoid dictating or demanding that Jehovah does certain special things for us
We need to avoid complaining to him about our expectations
We need to avoid taking unnecessary risks and chances
And that's why we have a very important group of brothers that help to remind us about safety
We do need to remember safety standards
Now some perhaps do not realize the difference between faith and stupidity
And they may have the viewpoint
Well, Jehovah will look after me if I'm doing whatever I'm doing
But notice what the awake magazine said back in 1953
It was in the article entitled you must not put God to the test
And this is what it says
It really amounts to considering ourselves very important
When we act as though nothing could happen to us because we are serving Jehovah
We dare not put God to the test with irrational actions and carelessness
We simply cannot expect God to furnish us angels to keep us from harm and accident
In spite of what we may or may not do
Well, that's a good reminder for all of us isn't it?
I know as a missionary this is a lesson I had to learn over the years
The difference between faith and stupidity
What I look back on the first few years I was in my missionary assignment
And some of the scary things we did jumping off ships into little boats in the open sea without life jackets
At the time I thought it was an act of faith
But now I view it a little differently
So we do need to be careful to measure what we're doing and see if it really is an act of faith
Or if it's just doing something stupid
Jesus showed great wisdom in this regard didn't he?
When he served Jehovah here on earth
No doubt many times his life was endangered
Because the Pharisees and the Sadraces were opposed him they were looking for ways to kill him
But because he was serving Jehovah doing what Jehovah wanted he had trust in Jehovah
That he wouldn't be killed before the due time
But on the other hand when Satan tempted him in a way to boldly show off
And jump off the temple
What did Jesus say?
You mustn't test Jehovah
You see Jesus realized that that would have been an act of stupidity
So for us today it's important likewise when we're making decisions
To balance up very carefully what Jehovah wants us to do
Yes, when Jehovah makes a promise and says if you put the kingdom first and you do what I want you to do
I will bless you
Then we reach out and we do that and we can be confident that Jehovah will ultimately bless us
But never
May we ever take the viewpoint that we will just put Jehovah to the test by taking chances and doing rash things
Yes, whatever we make a decision
Let's stop and prayerfully consider
Is this an act of faith or stupidity